[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to this edition
of "Beyond Belief."
And we've got a
great show for you.
We've got two Jays talking
about "Hollywood Decoded,"
the ability for Hollywood to put
in symbolism in different kinds
of films and movies
to teach you a lesson,
to give you information.
Their program, of course,
is on the "Gaia" series,
"Hollywood Decoded."
I want you to take a look at it.
>>JAY DYER: In Ridley
Scott's "Blade Runner,"
we have the warning of a
completely synthetic future,
something that's completely
overwritten normal reality.
LA traffic is still
bad 20 years from now.
>>JAY WEIDNER: Yeah.
>>DYER: Giant ziggurats
towering over the entire city
with one corporation that runs
it all, the Tyrell Corporation.
And what are they obsessed with?
Artificial intelligence
and human engineering.
>>WEIDNER: So this film is
really an amazing exploration
of what happens when an
artificial creature, Decker,
begins to realize that he is
beginning to become self-aware,
self-conscious.
I think that is actually
what the film is about,
is Decker's coming from
kind of the matrix of being
artificial intelligence.
And Batty initiating
him, and leading him
in to individuality,
which he achieves.
>>NOORY: So with our two
Jays, of course, Jay Dyer,
you are the author, Jay,
of "Esoteric Hollywood,"
which is an amazing book that
deals with the intricacies
of Hollywood.
How did you come up with that?
>>DYER: Well, it's born of
a love of film, actually.
I went to undergrad
and grad school
focused on film and philosophy.
And the more that you take
film classes, the more
you realize there's actually
interplay between these two
worlds.
And simultaneously
with that, I was also
studying conspiracy
on my own on the side.
I started realizing
that conspiracy is also
related to Hollywood as well.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>DYER: And so it all just
kind of flowered together
into this book, after
about eight or 10 years.
And I happened to meet Jay
Weidner at a conference.
And from that, we just decided
that this needed to be a show.
There's so much material here.
There's so many
metaphysical, secret society,
conspiracy topics that
relate to Hollywood.
And even the
blockbusters, that it
needs to be some kind of show
that demonstrates the symbolism
that you're talking about.
>>NOORY: And a great show it is.
And of course, Jay Weidner,
that Jay Dyer just mentioned,
is a renowned filmmaker and
is responsible for developing
the "Beyond Belief" television
show five years ago.
Remember that day?
>>WEIDNER: I do.
It was a long time ago.
>>NOORY: Well, welcome.
>>WEIDNER: It's been a long,
long road for "Beyond Belief."
>>NOORY: It's been
a great road too.
Robert Frost once
said, "Two roads
diverged in the
yellow wood, and I
took the one less traveled by."
That's what we did, Jay.
>>WEIDNER: That's
what we do, actually,
both you and I. It's our life.
>>NOORY: When you
met up with Jay Dyer
and started talking
about Hollywood
and all the strange
things that are going on,
what was it that you first saw?
>>WEIDNER: Well first,
like a companion.
I finally had someone I could
talk to about these things,
because it's been a
lonely road talking about,
saying that there are
esoteric symbols in the plots
of Hollywood films.
10 years ago, all I got
was raised eyebrows.
It was only in the
last few years,
probably because we're coming
at it from two different sides,
we've started actually
getting people
to understand that this
is really going on.
And then secondly, I
think filmmakers, in fact
I know filmmakers
like Christopher Nolan
are actually listening to us.
And they're starting to
slip things into their films
because they
realize that this is
what creates a lasting
benefit to the film,
that you can go watch
"2001: A Space Odyssey"
30 years after it
was made and still
find symbols and messages from
Stanley Kubrick in the film.
And they want that
kind of-- they
want their films to
last that long too.
And so I think that, like in
Interstellar for instance,
I think that
Christopher Nolan is
burying all sorts of messages
that he wants to be unravelled.
And Jay and I
actually do unravel
that film later in our
series, "Hollywood Decoded."
So I think that it's
both reaching back.
It's showing people what has
already existed in films.
And then we're kind of
co-creating a future in films,
where filmmakers are
adding in things, messages,
because they know that there's
people out there drilling down,
which is what we do.
>>NOORY: Is there some
governmental agency
that is going to
Hollywood and saying
look, put in information
about these conspiracies,
or put in these
things about UFOs.
Is some organization doing that?
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
I think that Hollywood is
being run by some agency.
I don't know who--
intel agency, that
is making sure
there are slow leaks
of information.
And also information withheld.
And aliens are a
perfect example.
If you really follow
Hollywood from the '50s on,
you can see there's
a slow revealing
of the alien interaction
with the human race.
>>NOORY: Kind of getting us
abreast of what's going on.
>>WEIDNER: That's right,
get us used to an idea.
And also, the same
thing with conspiracy.
Hollywood is more and more
dealing with conspiracy.
Because we're beginning
to figure out that
there actually is conspiracies.
But also, conspiracies
are great entertainment.
I mean, Shakespeare's greatest
plays are conspiracies.
>>NOORY: Sure, absolutely.
>>WEIDNER: "Hamlet," "Macbeth."
>>DYER: Yeah, I think that
when I was doing my research,
I came across actually
academic text that
discussed the relationship
between the intelligence
agencies and Hollywood.
And so most of the 16 or so that
we know, intelligence agencies,
actually have liaison
offices with various studios.
And so it's just like you said,
they actually can say at times,
we want this message here, we
don't want this message here.
You need to alter the
script a little bit here.
Again, written by university
professors, two or three books
I came across.
This blew me away.
Because I had no
idea that there was
such an intimate relationship
between the Pentagon
and Hollywood.
But it's all there.
>>NOORY: It's huge.
Lamar Waldron, who's been on
"Coast to Coast" and "Beyond
Belief," has written books
about the JFK assassination,
wrote in his book that the
CIA has a division that
does nothing but deal with
the media, which includes
Hollywood, trying to get
them to control what they say
or to say something that
the government wants
them to know about and say.
Who would think about
that, years ago?
>>WEIDNER: Well, William
Colby, the head of the CIA,
said that he plays the press
like a giant Wurlitzer.
So that was in the '60s.
And we know around the
JFK assassination, all
of the interplay of
intelligence agencies,
trying to hide what
was really going on.
And then Oliver Stone
made his great film in '91
about JFK, in which the
"Washington Post" reviewed
the film before it came out.
The first time that a
film was actually reviewed
at all before it came out.
And it was a huge
negative review.
And the "Washington Post"
has ties to the CIA.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>WEIDNER: So we're looking
at this, and saying, yeah,
this is what's going on.
We just have to come
to grips with it.
I don't think that the CIA
actually took over Hollywood
until the late '70s.
They think you can
see, if you watch
films, that there
was a kind of a tenor
to the films of the '70s, very
rebellious, very revealing,
very conspiratorial.
And then "The Godfather,"
actually talking
about the mafia
for the first time.
And all this, and
then around '79, '80,
you see a sudden
shift in the way
that films are more
blockbustery, less
controversial,
and I think that's
when they started
coming in and said,
uh, you guys, we've
had enough of that.
We're not going
reveal any more truths
that you guys are revealing.
>>NOORY: Don't go there.
>>WEIDNER: Don't go there.
>>DYER: There's actually
a movie about this topic
called "Wag the Dog."
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah, absolutely.
>>DYER: A lot of people
are probably familiar with,
in the early '90s and--
>>NOORY: With Dustin Hoffman.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>WEIDNER: He plays
Stanley Kubrick.
>>DYER: And then you have
the Robert De Niro character,
who is more or less the liaison
who's kind of telling him
what to do and how the
scripts going to be.
And they even kind of create
a fake war in Albania,
with Kirsten Dunst, is
actually a young girl.
>>NOORY: With a blue
screen behind them.
>>DYER: She's holding
Tostitos, and they Photoshop--
>>NOORY: Etched them out.
>>DYER: Right.
>>NOORY: Yeah, and the
Dustin Hoffman character
is named Stanley.
And he's clearly
Stanley Kubrick.
And he's running around saying
this is my greatest work,
this is my greatest work, I
want the world to know it.
And then Robert De Niro
says, uh-uh, uh-uh.
And then Dustin Hoffman dies.
And so I think that the
director, whose name escapes me
at the moment, was
trying to show us
that Stanley Kubrick was
involved in this stuff.
>>NOORY: Now when we
talk about the meaning
of esoteric films,
exactly what are
we talking about first of all?
For a "Beyond Belief"
audience, what
does esoteric mean when you're
dealing with these films?
>>DYER: Well, esoteric
means inner, hidden.
And then esoteric
is the opposite
of that, which is
public and revealed.
And so I titled my
book that because I
felt like there was
so much going on
in films that it was actually
multi-layered, multi-tiered.
And you can have the level which
is kind of the surface meaning,
or like if you talk
about great literature,
if you have a college class, you
might do a close reading, which
is where you're picking
apart the symbols,
and the imagery, and
the foreshadowing.
But then it goes deeper
than that, because you also
have kind of occult, or esoteric
meanings in a lot of films,
like "2001" or "Eyes
Wide Shut," where
we're dealing with
secret societies,
and metaphysics, and gods.
>>NOORY: Real life.
>>DYER: Exactly.
And then there's
also layers where
there might be government
propaganda, where
the establishment is essentially
trying to socially engineer
and nudge or turn the population
in a certain direction.
So it can really just go off
in all kinds of directions
if you know how to
decode those layers.
And that's what we try to do.
>>NOORY: When you
wrote the book,
"Esoteric Hollywood," what was
the impetus to write the book?
What did you first
see that made you say,
well, there's more to this?
>>DYER: I think when
I was in high school,
I really developed
a love for film.
And I remember back
in the late '90s,
"Conspiracy Theory" came
out, the Dick Donner film
with Mel Gibson.
And the whole plot is Mel
Gibson is this former MKUltra
survivor.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>DYER: Who has all this
triggered memory coming back.
And he doesn't know
what's going on.
And he's running this
little conspiracy magazine.
And I remember watching
that and thinking there's
something going on here.
Why is this film talking
about MKUltra, what's MKUltra?
So it just kind of
piqued my interest
to start looking
into these topics
back when I was 17 or 18.
>>NOORY: It was like a
domino effect after that.
>>DYER: Exactly.
And then you start noticing that
there's all these other films
that have similar topics.
I liked "The Godfather"
trilogy quite a bit,
that Jay mentioned.
And you notice, that
especially in "Godfather II,"
it's all about the mob working
together with the government,
in terms of how to
corrupt senators
and how to coerce them.
And then, in "Part
III," Michael Corleone
becomes this global, basically
private foundation operator.
And you start noticing,
oh, that's actually
how the world really works.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
So of all the filmmakers
that have been out there,
who's the most esoteric one?
>>DYER: We're probably
going to agree and disagree.
I think that number one,
I have to agree with Jay,
probably Kubrick.
>>NOORY: I would too.
>>DYER: I'm going to say number
two, actually David Lynch.
>>NOORY: And how
about Oliver Stone?
>>DYER: Yes, in many ways, yeah.
>>NOORY: But Kubrick,
of course, when
he came out with
some of his movies,
and we'll talk about a few more,
"Space Odyssey," "2001: A Space
Odyssey," when I first watched
that, and I was much younger,
I didn't get it right away.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[PLAYBACK ENDS]
>>NOORY: Jay, what
did that scene mean?
>>WEIDNER: Well,
it's interesting.
There was a famous incident
when they showed "2001: A Space
Odyssey" in Hollywood, at the
Hollywood Dome, the Cinerama
Theater there on
Sunset Boulevard.
Rock Hudson, about
halfway through the film,
stood up and went I don't
know what this movie is about,
and stormed out of the theater.
And I think a lot
of people did that.
I know my dad, when he saw it,
he stormed out of the theater.
A lot of people didn't get it.
>>NOORY: Stormed
out in frustration?
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, frustration.
I was exact opposite.
I was completely entranced and
could not get out of my seat.
And the usher had to literally
come and tell me to leave,
that it was time to go.
And I couldn't get on my seat.
And I was stunned for like
three days after I saw the film.
>>NOORY: So you get this.
>>WEIDNER: I didn't get it.
I knew that something was
happening that I should get,
but I didn't know why.
It took me years
really to unveil
what was really going on.
I must have seen
it 20 or 30 times.
And I began realizing,
as I matured, and studied
philosophy, and alchemy,
and esotericism,
that Kubrick was heavily
enmeshed in these subjects.
And then after he died,
I talked to a person who
worked at his estate in London.
He said, oh, yeah,
he had whole shelves,
a library full of
alchemy books, philosophy
books on hermetic traditions.
>>NOORY: Right,
he was into this.
>>WEIDNER: He was
totally into it.
It was his life.
And I think that he had a
plan at the end of his life
to do "Eyes Wide Shut" and then
"AI" as a kind of final bookend
to what he was really
trying to express
about both esotericism, but also
his fears of secret societies
and where they're
going to take us,
if they keep going
on unchecked, which
is what I think
both of those films
were originally
going to be about.
>>NOORY: And died before he
finished "Eyes Wide Shut."
>>WEIDNER: Yes, he did.
And I believe they
re-edited "Eyes Wide Shut"
and took huge chunks of
important material out of it.
I was told by one of his top
assistants that this was so.
>>NOORY: And that was
another esoteric movie
I didn't get until you
watch it three, four times.
And then it starts
to dawn on you,
hey, this is a little
symbolism, they're
trying to tell us something.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, and
Kubrick, when I first
started arguing that Kubrick was
placing symbols into his films,
this was before "Eyes
Wide Shut" came out.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>WEIDNER: People,
basically I was chastised
and called kind of--
you're just seeing
things that aren't there.
And then "Eyes Wide Shut"
came out exactly 30 years
after the Apollo launch,
and when people saw that,
that was it.
They all said, you're right.
This guy is obviously
doing things
that we did not
realize in his films.
And we all have to go
back and take a closer
look at all of his films.
>>NOORY: Was he, in your
opinion, being told what to do?
Or was he doing this on his own?
>>WEIDNER: He was
being told what
to do in "2001:
A Space Odyssey."
That was definitely the
government telling him
that we're going to reforge the
future, as far as space travel,
or what it looks like.
And he had major
corporations behind him,
major people in NASA working
with him on "Space Odyssey."
But I think he cut a deal.
I'm pretty sure I'm
right about this.
He's the only
filmmaker, I think,
because of what he
did for the government
in "2001: A Space Odyssey," he
got to kind of have a free ride
and do whatever he wanted
for the rest of his career,
and "Eyes Wide Shut,"
which was re-edited.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>WEIDNER: But you know, he
did not have anyone re-edit
"Clockwork Orange."
He re-edited it after
the controversy arised.
Same thing with "Barry
Lyndon," all of his films,
he was in complete
control of them.
>>NOORY: The Nazis, Jay
Dyer, understood propaganda.
They even had a department that
did nothing but propaganda.
>>DYER: Yeah, and this
goes back to the earliest
days of the camera.
The camera was known,
even when it was invented,
that it was going to be a
tremendous tool for propaganda.
And so the Nazis were some of
the first pioneers of that.
You're absolutely right.
And then Hollywood does
the exact same thing.
Some of the earliest days of
Hollywood were actually Nazis.
And then you have various
competing factions
who kind of vied for
control of Hollywood.
But from the earliest days,
movies were propaganda.
You can go back to Howard Hughes
in the '20s, "Hell's Angels."
He was filming giant
war propaganda films.
Most people don't know that,
but they were propaganda.
>>NOORY: Maybe even funded
by the government to do that.
>>DYER: Oh, absolutely.
>>WEIDNER: I agree.
And Leni Riefenstahl, who
was Hitler's filmmaker,
literally hired 30,000 extras
to be at the Nuremberg rally.
Those weren't people
that were actually Nazis.
Those were people that she
went out in the streets
and gathered, on
told them how to act.
>>NOORY: Made it sound like
they all wanted to follow him.
>>WEIDNER: Exactly.
It was all propaganda.
The entire Nuremberg
rally was nothing
but staged, the entire thing.
Same with "The
Olympiad," her great film
on the 1936 Olympics.
I mean, that was all staged.
The cameras were
buried under the pool
so you could see
all the swimmers,
and they were all
brilliantly done.
And in fact, she does
not get enough credit
by the way for her pioneering
filmmaking propaganda
abilities.
And I'm one of her biggest fans
and think, despite the fact
that she worked with the
Nazis, she was a genius.
>>DYER: The Soviets
did the same thing too.
There were a lot of Soviet
films that were actually
pretty famous and well known.
"Battle of Potemkin" is
actually a propaganda film.
So you've got the communists,
you've got the fascists,
and you've got America as well
doing their own propaganda
films.
>>NOORY: And this came in
an era where television
wasn't predominant at all.
And all we had really was
a radio and the movies.
And they probably figured how
better way to reach people.
We don't have social networking,
we can only have Facebook,
we don't have Twitters,
and text messaging.
How do we reach
all these people,
get our message across,
and get them to understand,
believe us, and follow us?
And that's what they did.
The Nazis were
excellent at this.
Even at Hitler's
speeches, they would have
the logo of the swastika there.
I mean, they just had everything
down to a science, didn't they?
>>WEIDNER: Well, I don't
think anybody's ever
been able to achieve this
kind of political performance
like fascism.
Communism can't
compete with them.
The symbols, the banners,
the music, the lighting,
and everything.
>>NOORY: They had it all.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, it appeals
to a very basic nature
of human beings.
And you know, Hitler knew that.
And you know soil
and soul, he would
call it, the blood in the
ground, and your soul together.
This is a very fascist idea.
And a very dangerous
idea in some ways too.
And Hitler had it
down like no one.
And then, I really do
believe that was Leni
Riefenstahl behind all of it.
He was designing--
he was drawing.
He was an artist.
And he was designing
these rallies
when he was a poor little guy.
We found the drawings.
And he designed the
Nuremberg rally.
>>NOORY: He was way
ahead of his time.
>>WEIDNER: Way
>>NOORY: Way ahead of his time.
When Chris Carter put
together "X-Files",
how did he get into
those files, Jay?
>>DYER: My understanding is that
there actually was a connection
between the CIA
and the "X-Files.
And in fact, there are
interviews with Dean Haglund
from the "X-Files," where
he says that we had the CIA
on set.
They were actually telling us
what we could and couldn't say.
So I think that Chris
Carter had to have
some connection, somebody who
was leaking information to him.
Because so many of those plots--
and I love the show.
I've seen it probably three
times all the way through.
So many of those plots, so
many of those episodes, which
we actually cover, do deal
with real conspiracies,
real deep state issues.
>>NOORY: They really did touch
on conspiracies in "X-Files."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> What are they trying to do?
>> That's the missing piece.
>> But it's not hard to
imagine a government hiding,
hoarding alien
technology for 70 years,
at the expense of human life
and the future of the planet.
Driven not only by corporate
greed, but a darker objective.
>> The take over of America.
>> And then the world itself,
by any means necessary,
however violent, or
cruel, or efficient.
By severe drought
brought on by weather
wars, conducted secretly by
using aerial contaminants
and high altitude
electromagnetic waves,
in a state of perpetual
war, to create
problem-reaction solution
scenarios to distract, enrage
and enslave American
citizens at home.
With tools like the Patriot
Act and the National Defense
Authorization Act, which
abridge the Constitution
in the name of
national security.
The militarization of police
forces in cities across the US.
The building of prison camps
by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with
no stated purpose.
The corporate takeover
of food and agriculture,
pharmaceuticals,
and health care.
Even the military and
clandestine agendas too fatten,
dull, sicken, and
control a populace
already consumed by consumerism.
>> And I encourage you
all to go shopping more.
>> A government that taps your
phone, collects your data,
and monitors your
whereabouts with impunity.
A government preparing to
use that data against you,
when it strikes, and the
final takeover begins.
>> The takeover of America.
>> By a well-oiled and
well-armed multi-national group
of elites that will cull,
kill, and subjugate.
>> Happening as we sit here.
>> It's happening all around us.
>> The other shoe
waiting to drop.
>> It'll probably
start on a Friday.
The banks will announce
a security action,
necessitating their computers
to go offline all weekend.
>> Digital money will disappear.
>> They can just
steal your money?
>> Followed by the detonation of
strategic electromagnetic pulse
bombs to knock out major grids.
>> What will seem like an
attack on America by terrorists
or Russia.
>> Or a simulated
alien invasion,
using alien replica vehicles
that exist and are already
in use.
>> An alien invasion of the US.
>> The Russians tried it in '47.
>> You can't say these things.
>> I'm going to
say them tomorrow.
[PLAYBACK ENDS]
>>NOORY: You can't get
much stronger than that,
in terms of giving messages.
>>NOORY: No, Chris Carter's
been doing amazing things
for his whole career.
He had a show called
"The Lone Gunman," which
came out in April of
2001, in which the opening
episode, a plane gets taken
over by remote control
and is going to fly into
the World Trade Center,
until the lone gunmen
successfully cracked
the code in the software
and avert the plane,
but at the last minute.
I mean that was an amazing
bit of predictive programming.
And he's done that before.
He predicted bird flu in his
other show, "Millennium,"
and "X-Files" is just filled
with predictive programming.
I guarantee you that he
was getting fed information
by somebody.
>>NOORY: Sure.
You just don't create this.
>>WEIDNER: No, it was definitely
controlled in a way that--
several times in the "X-Files,"
he does what we just saw,
where there's a sudden--
almost like a documentary for
like five or 10 minutes, where
somebody's releasing
all this information,
and Carter's making all these
cuts and showing you reality.
And those are the prime
moments when you really got
to perk up and pay attention.
Because somebody has
told Carter to release
this amount of
information in this way.
And I think what we just
saw is one of those moments.
>>NOORY: Would Chris Carter
deny what you've just said?
>>WEIDNER: I think--
what do you think?
>>DYER: I don't think so.
>>NOORY: Or would he say, hey,
yeah, I do get fed information.
They do tell me about this.
>>WEIDNER: I think
he's proud of it.
I don't think he's
hiding it in any way.
It's so obvious that, you know--
>>DYER: I mean, if you look at
the later seasons of "X-Files,"
there's actually episodes
that David Duchovny wrote
and produced, like "Hollywood
AD," and "Hollywood AD,"
is almost literally what we do.
The plot of that
episode was that there's
a giant secret society
network that kind of
runs Hollywood and is
promoting gnosticism,
promoting secret society ideas.
So I think if you've got even
actors stepping in and doing
the production and writing
roles about what we do,
then that has to be well-known.
>>NOORY: Where does
it go from here?
What's next in this area?
>>WEIDNER: Well, I
think, as I said earlier,
I think filmmakers who
may not have wanted
to waste their time trying
to say deeper things,
they just wanted to do an
action film, or a horror film,
or whatever, are rethinking
what they're doing now,
and they're realizing that
in order for their films
to stand the test
of time, that they
have to start adding things that
make the film more interesting.
And so they're doing that.
I mean, it's happening
a lot nowadays.
And to the point
now where there's
almost so many films that
have to be deciphered,
that there is enough
time for guys like Jay
and I to even do it anymore.
Which is good.
It's a good thing.
And actually, I
think the films are
getting more interesting,
especially some of the TV
series that are up on Netflix.
They're actually getting
very interesting subjects
and esoteric ideas.
And definitely, we
see the mainstream
moving towards this, which
is a really good thing.
>>NOORY: Do you think
shows like "Breaking Bad"
had a message that might
have been leaked into it?
>>DYER: Absolutely, Vince
Gilligan was also involved
in "X-Files."
And so I think if you look at
someone like Catherine Austin
Fitts, who I've done a
lot of interviews with,
she will explain the realities
behind "Breaking Bad,"
that there are actually
covert networks that
will run drugs in the
very same fashion,
through all kinds of
fronts and shells,
just like you see
in "Breaking Bad."
>>NOORY: When you talk about
predictive programming,
exactly what is that?
>>WEIDNER: That
is an intel agency
who wants to soften up
the audience for an idea.
So we have, like
in "The Matrix,"
Neo's passport says that it was
issued on September 11th, 2001.
And the film came out
two years earlier.
And I think that that's
what they're trying to do,
is set you up, so that
when the event occurs,
you're kind of OK with it.
This is what Carter was
doing with "The Lone Gunman."
He is softening up the audience.
They knew this thing was coming.
Let's make this show.
Let's show that it happened.
Then when it happens,
it's not going
to be such a big shock to the
people watching, because they
saw it already on TV.
>>DYER: I think this
is really an idea that
comes out of early 20th century
British espionage fiction.
So you have a lot of writers
like Graham Greene, who
will write books like,
"Our Man in Havana,"
and these books will
predict events like--
>>NOORY: Ian Fleming?
>>DYER: Exactly.
They'll predict events
like false flag attacks,
or whatever, that will
happen a year or two later.
In fact, you mentioned
Ian Fleming--
his brother, Peter
Fleming, also wrote a novel
about a flight of a Nazi
leader to Scotland a year
or two before Rudolf
Hess' famous flight.
So I think that
what you're seeing
is this kind of, as he
mentioned, softening up.
And almost a kind of magic
ritual, voodoo ritual,
where it's like, oh,
they know what's coming.
And so you're kind of
deceived into thinking
that the establishment
has God powers.
>>NOORY: Well, I didn't
know about the passport date
from "The Matrix."
That's unbelievable.
>>WEIDNER: It is.
And there's others.
There's a lot of
references actually
to the 9/11 events going on
in the entertainment industry.
And it bears further scrutiny.
Because I'm--
>>NOORY: It sure does.
>>WEIDNER: But
again, we also know
that, as Cliff High has
talked about frequently,
that people have the ability
to understand future events.
And he does his
programs, which show
that people are talking on the
internet about an event that
hasn't occurred yet.
And then it will occur.
And I think that that's
also what's going on here.
People are naturally psychic.
>>NOORY: They are
naturally psychic.
They have this connection.
But I don't believe
in coincidences.
There's just no way somebody
would have injected 9/11
in a passport in a movie,
or come up with an idea
that planes are going
to target buildings.
You don't guess that.
Somebody's telling
somebody something.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, and
so close to the event.
They both happened
before the event,
but they're pretty close.
Two years is pretty
close to the event time.
And so it was definitely
done on purpose.
>>NOORY: I think during the
Oklahoma federal building
bombing that there was
a story or a book that
had come out prior to
that, wasn't there, Jay?
>>DYER: It's "The Final
Jihad" by Keating,
who was the governor's brother.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>DYER: And he
mentions Tim McVeigh.
>>NOORY: It came out
years before, years
before the actual
event happened.
>>DYER: Tim McVeigh,
instead of--
>>WEIDNER: Also, five years
before the Titanic sunk,
there was a novel called "The
Titan," about a super ship
called The Titan, which
sinks by hitting an iceberg
and kills everyone on board.
>>NOORY: Go figure, go figure.
>>DYER: I think there's two
things that work with that.
And I think sometimes it's
intelligence agencies telling,
feeding information.
I also think that
at times people
have a kind of artistic
inspiration or sense
of what's coming.
So an example of that
would be, there's
a famous Dostoyevsky novel
from the late 1800s, called
"Demons."
And in that novel, he predicts
a socialist revolution
that will come on top of
millions of skulls for Russia.
That's 20, 30 years before 1917.
>>NOORY: Which happened.
When you talked about
"The Matrix" again,
there's a genius behind
these movies, isn't there?
>>WEIDNER: It's
questionable, you know,
who's really writing
these at a certain point.
Yes, the Wachowskis
did write it,
but you have to
really wonder who's
lurking really in
the shadows, making
sure these things are done.
And I think that there is,
as Jay has pointed out,
an intel agency that's
at the heart of this.
>>NOORY: We have a little
clip of that "Matrix" passport
scene.
Let's-- this fascinates me.
Let's have a look at it.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> You have a Social Security
number, you pay your taxes,
and you help your landlady
carry out her garbage.
The other life is
lived in computers,
where you go by the
hacker alias Neo
and are guilty of
virtually every computer
crime we have a law for.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Yeah it's uncanny.
You could actually
see the date there.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, again
though, unless you had a DV--
we didn't even have DVDs then--
if you had a videotape--
>>DYER: --you wouldn't
have caught that.
>>WEIDNER: You wouldn't
have caught it.
And so, again, when videotape
became ever present,
then they could
freeze frame stuff.
And so it came
easier for filmmakers
to add more things
in because people
are at home freeze framing it--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>WEIDNER: --and
looking for things.
>>DYER: A lot of people would
be skeptical of the idea
that you could have
something that detailed
on purpose and intentional.
But if you watch a lot of
director's commentaries,
or even Roger Ebert's
DVD commentaries,
they will discuss intricacies
and details ad nauseum.
I mean, it is that intricate.
Especially directors like
Christopher Nolan or Kubrick,
they're very attentive
to the details.
And so these kinds of
things aren't accidental.
They're not coincidence.
They're usually on purpose.
And I think something that's
so significant, like that date,
and this is 1998, you know
three years ahead of time.
I don't think that's
a coincidence.
>>NOORY: I mean when
Oliver Stone put together
his "JFK" film, of course,
which truly dug into the Warren
Commission, and tore
it apart, and really
backed up the things that
Jim Garrison, the New Orleans
prosecutor, was
trying to unravel.
How does he know that
stuff as a director?
I mean, how does a director
pick up stuff like that?
Somebody's coming to
him on the outside.
>>WEIDNER: I think
in that case, he
became fascinated
by the whole thing,
after watching "The Men
who Killed Kennedy," which
was a great
documentary series that
came out about four years
earlier, five years earlier.
And he apparently became
obsessed, from what I hear.
And he was into every detail.
Jim Marrs, he based the
book, off of "Crossfire."
>>NOORY: God rest his soul.
>>WEIDNER: May he rest in peace.
And I've talked to Jim
quite a bit about it,
and Jim said that Oliver
would be on the phone all day
with him, discussing little
tiny details, like was JFK
wearing a toupee, did he have--
where was his tie,
why was Jackie's--
did Jackie get hit by
any blood, and all this.
And super details.
And you can see it in the film.
It's a great film.
It is the best film that
Oliver Stone ever made.
>>NOORY: I think so too.
>>WEIDNER: I think it's one
of the best films ever made.
I think the acting, the
lighting, the cinematography,
everything was just
top rate in that film.
>>DYER: You mentioned
Jim Garrison.
He's actually been in
a few movies as well.
He shows up in the '80s
movie, "The Big Easy."
>>NOORY: Right.
>>DYER: Which is an interesting.
There's another tie-in between--
>>NOORY: And see,
and there was a time
where the government
tried to portray
Jim Garrison as a lunatic.
>>DYER: Right.
>>WEIDNER: Even Johnny Carson.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
They put him down.
>>WEIDNER: Somebody had to
tell Johnny Carson this too,
you've got to make
him look like a fool.
So does it go all the
way to talk show hosts?
And the answer is, probably.
>>NOORY: I've got
to tell you, Jay,
that I have never been
approached by the government
to do this or to do that.
They just have stayed away
from me for some reason.
With our vast audience, I've
always wondered about that.
Maybe they're afraid that I'll
say they tried to approach me.
>>WEIDNER: Well, I have to
say, I've never been either.
I've never had any government
agency ever try to influence
what I'm doing on
"Gaia" or anything.
So I think there's
certain people
that they just stay away from.
>>NOORY: They stay away from.
>>WEIDNER: They've already done
an analysis of the personnel,
and know they'll blow
the beans in public.
>>NOORY: That's right.
That guy's not
going to play ball.
>>WEIDNER: They're not
going to play ball,
so there's no point in--
let him just be suspicious,
but never ever confirm.
Because don't forget,
if they do come to you
and tell you what to do, it
confirms your worst suspicions.
Therefore, you're going to be
going to guns, because you now
know that this is
exactly what's going on.
Where now you're not 100% sure
if they're telling people what
to do, because they've
never told you what to do,
and I'm in the same boat.
>>NOORY: Yeah if they're
that concerned about it,
and they come to
me, then there's
got to be some fire
behind that smoke.
>>WEIDNER: Absolutely,
and they don't want that.
That's the last thing
they want is a guy who's
got millions of people
listening to him on radio
suddenly start talking
about this gentleman that
approached him yesterday
at the coffee shop.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>DYER: Well, conspiracy
theory is the pejorative that
comes out of the JFK period.
The CIA actually created that
term as a weaponized term
for anybody that questioned
the report, oh, that's
a conspiracy theorist.
And that actually worked.
But I think nowadays,
it's kind of backfired.
And to be a conspiracy
theorist is actually
to be a reality theorist.
It's not really a
pejorative anymore.
>>NOORY: Do you think that
governments, with your program,
"Hollywood Decoded,"
will continue
to try to leak information into
films, and television shows,
and even fake news
with social networking?
I think we have to add
that to the mix now.
>>WEIDNER: We do, that's
a very good point.
Because once you realize
that the movies are
being turned into propaganda
and being weaponized,
then you have to say to
yourself, OK, is it novels?
Yeah.
OK, is it TV shows?
Oh, yeah.
Is it new shows?
Yes.
Then you start getting into
the fake news and examining it,
and you realize that almost
everything you're seeing
is a contrived incident.
And they're learning
that from movies.
They're taking Hollywood
production techniques
and applying them to news
now, to where they're
literally having fake actors,
and everything's fake,
and the lighting is great,
and the acting is great,
and the production
values are first class.
And that's troubling.
>>DYER: You mentioned
"The Matrix,"
there's a scene that we watched
when Neo first pulls a book off
of his shelf and it's a famous
philosophy book, actually.
It's called-- it's "Simulacra
and Simulation," by Jean
Baudrillard, who was a famous
French philosopher, who
wrote that where we're
going with this tech
synthetic society is a world
in which the synthetic will
overlay the real.
And so I think it's amazing
to me that they stuck that in.
He's pulling out this book that
deals with that topic, Neo is.
And that's what we're dealing
with, with mass media,
is this synthetic overlay--
it's not the real world
that's really out there,
but it's the one that the media
kind of gives us as the glasses
that we're supposed
to interpret reality.
And it's that's fake
media perception.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
Wasn't it Bill Casey,
the CIA director,
he said that when
everybody out there--
when absolutely everything
they believe is BS,
we know we've succeeded.
And that's where
we are right now.
Everything, nobody has any
footing in reality anymore.
>>NOORY: They don't know.
>>DYER: They are confused.
>>WEIDNER: They are.
Hollywood is largely
responsible for that.
I hate to say it.
>>NOORY: James Cameron,
great director.
Is he told stuff too?
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
There's no way that a
former truck driver could
know what he knows and put
it into "The Terminator,"
not at that time,
not in 1983, '84.
DARPA was working on
all of those things,
but it was super top
secret at the time.
I heard about it from insiders,
from NASA insiders that they
were working on
these robots that
were going to be able
to think independently,
and they would be used
for law enforcement.
But that was long before
anybody knew about it.
And somehow, Cameron knew
about it, and got it right.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>DYER: Even the internet plays
a big role in "The Terminator."
Nobody in the '80s knew
about the internet,
unless they worked
in some agency.
>>NOORY: Right, and
who would predict that?
Because if you knew,
heck, I'd be buying stock
at all these emerging companies.
>>DYER: Well, what's
funny is that there
are all of these '80s
movies and TV shows that
have the internet, and even
older science fiction stories,
from Isaac Asimov.
But if you think about
"The Running Man,"
there's a famous scene
where in "The Running Man,"
Arnold Schwarzenegger comes in,
and he orders a plane ticket
on the info net in the film.
This is the mid-80's.
>>NOORY: Yeah, way before.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, they
we're getting us ready.
>>NOORY: Who would have
thought that "Avatar" had
some little messages in there?
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> You throw a stick
in the air around here,
it's going to land on some
sacred fern, for Christ sake.
>> I'm not talking about some
kind of pagan voodoo here.
I'm talking about something
real, something measurable
in the biology of the forest.
>> Which is what exactly?
>> What we think we know
is that there's some kind
of electrochemical communication
between the roots of the trees,
like the synapses
between neurons.
And each tree has ten to
the fourth connections
to the trees around it.
And there are 10 to the
12th trees on Pandora.
>> Which is a lot, I'm guessing.
>> It's more connections
than the human brain, get it?
It's a network.
It's a global network.
And the Na'vi can access it.
They can upload and download
data, memories, at sites
like the one you just destroyed.
Yes.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Great movie.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, great movie.
>>NOORY: A lot of
symbolism behind it.
Did Cameron have some kind
of glimpse into the future?
>>WEIDNER: Well, yeah,
I think, what my thesis
is that he had made "Titanic,"
which was the greatest
grossing film of all time.
And the hidden message
behind "Titanic" I think
is that we're witnessing
the end of our world.
And then he kind
of realized that he
made kind of a bummer movie
with the end of the world--
>>NOORY: A downer.
>>WEIDNER: A downer.
So he decided to come
back with his answer
to what the end of
that world would be,
and what we could do
to make a newer world.
And I think that's
what he was trying
to show in "Avatar,"
that going back
to a more natural existence,
more of a tribal existence,
is probably going to be a
better way for us to go.
And I think that
in the future, we
are going to go back into a more
rural, bringing our machines
and our toys with us.
I think that's
what the answer is.
That we're probably going
to de-urbanize the world.
And there's really no point
for people to be piled up
on top of each other anymore.
And I think that's
probably where we're going.
So I think Cameron,
in the end, is
going to be right
I like that last--
that scene in particular.
Because as a person who tries
to talk about spiritual matters,
and to watch Giovanni
Ribisi's eyes rolling.
I get that a lot.
So I really like that scene,
because I'm constantly up
against people like him,
who cannot comprehend what
I'm saying.
>>NOORY: I've seen you
roll your eyes sometimes.
>>WEIDNER: I do roll my
eyes at people like him.
So that's one of my favorite
scenes in the movie.
>>NOORY: As you look at these
films that are emerging today,
are you seeing something
that we should know about,
that could occur two, three,
four, or five years from now?
>>DYER: Yes, so many examples
from the past show this.
So if you look at
Spielberg films, like "AI,"
you know, we're
seeing, for example,
sex bots, that are replacing
real relationships.
That was a big theme in that
movie back in 2000, 2001.
15 years, 20 years
later, we're seeing it.
So I think that nowadays what
we can look at in the films
is what we can expect
15, 20 years from now.
>>NOORY: Do you see another
9/11 in the movies, for example?
Do you see anything like that?
>>WEIDNER: Well, I
think that they're
getting worried about
pulling off events,
because we're getting so
hip to what they're doing,
that when they pull
a fake event now,
they have 50,000 independent
investigators on the internet
tearing apart the event.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>WEIDNER: And they're
getting a little bit worried
about that, that we're getting
too hip to what they're doing.
So I've noticed the
events are slowing down.
They're not pulling those
many fake events anymore.
I don't know why.
Maybe it's because of that.
But what's interesting
is because, I
think, because of what
Jay and I have been doing,
not as a direct result,
but as a side result,
is people are
going to movies now
that are coming out
now, and looking
for predictive programming,
in the movies, which has never
happened before.
So that's really interesting.
And what it looks like to me
is that they are planning on
like creating some kind of
dystopian future of some kind,
because that's what the themes
of all the modern films,
over and over again, is
this dystopian, confused,
chaotic future, which
does not make me feel real
>>DYER: Well, if we think about
the Lakowski's-- it makes me
think of "V for Vandetta," which
is another film that I think
deals with a lot of the
themes that we're discussing,
predictive
programming, dystopia.
And in "V for Vendetta," you
have a big landmark, Big Ben,
that's essentially destroyed.
In a lot of other
natural disaster movies,
they love to destroy
the Golden Gate Bridge.
So I think that if we were to
pick out certain landmarks--
>>NOORY: That could
be the next one.
>>DYER: One one level--
>>NOORY: God, let's hope not.
>>DYER: But, yeah.
>>NOORY: Jay, lot of competition
out there with everything.
You've got television,
you've got the internet,
you've got Facebook.
You've got all these
places coming up
with their own programming.
What's the future for films?
>>WEIDNER: That's a
really good question.
I think about that a lot.
I think that films
are losing some
of their sense of individuation.
I don't think there's really--
you can't really sense
a style from a director
as much as you used to.
Of course, people
like David Lynch,
you can see their style,
because it's so idiosyncratic.
But I think we're running
into kind of a sameness
now, in the way
that films are made,
and there's way too much CGI.
And I think that there's going
to be a rebellion against that.
And we're going to go down
to more base, good acting,
good writing kinds of films
are going to come back.
So it's really going
to be the creator.
It always has been the creator.
But Hollywood is losing control.
And that's a good thing.
Control is now coming back to
the independent film makers,
and the equipment and
technology is so low budget,
that a person with
not much money
can actually make an
interesting film now.
So I think the future's
very bright for the artist.
There's never been a
better time to be a content
creator than right now.
>>NOORY: Your show,
"Hollywood Decoded"
is pretty cutting edge.
What can we expect
from you in the future?
>>DYER: More cutting edge.
In fact, we're going
to be taking apart
some of the biggest
films that are out there.
We're going to do
some Hitchcock.
more James Cameron.
We're going to do Ridley Scott.
We're going to do Christopher
Nolan films that run the gamut.
We've got "Batman," we've got--
>>WEIDNER: We've got them all.
>>DYER: We got them all.
>>NOORY: I tell people not
everything's a conspiracy,
but you need to look at
everything as if it were.
>>WEIDNER: I tell
people that it's OK
if you want to call me
a conspiracy theorist,
but then I get to call you
a coincidence theorist.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Jay, Jay, thanks for
being on the program.
Good luck with
"Hollywood Decoded."
It's a program you
can see on "Gaia"--
Gaia.com.